---
slug: intro-day4
title: Day 4 of Intro to Programming
author: Dylan Reynolds
tags: [Training, DotNet]
---

As the fifth day of Intro to Programming at Progressive came to a close, I realized how much of a whirlwind this week has been. Looking back on my notes from the week, we've covered huge amounts of material, and I am trying to absorb as much of it as I can manage.

On Day 5, we began by discussing the "building blocks of thingies in C#," as Jeff described it. We talked about the different ways objects can be used -- from entities to values and services. We also leanred about how objects have "affordances" and the distinction between commands and queries. I am attaching my notes from this section below: 

- building blocks of thingies in C#
	- generally, "objects"
		- objects are thingies we can do stuff to
		- objects have "affordances"
			- if we had a bank account, its affordances are that we can:
				- get the balance `var currentBalance = account.GetBalance();` "Safe" (query, nothing is going to change when this happens)
				- make a deposit `account.Deposit(1_000_000);` "Unsafe" (command, something is going to change when this happens)
				- make a withdrawal `account.Withdraw(800);` "Unsafe" (command, something is going to change when this happens)
			- command-query responsibility separation (CQRS)
				- be careful not to write queries that also do commands
		- some objects we call "entities"
			- these are objects that are in some way specific -- they are related to a real thing
			- two instances of an entity are considered equal if they have the same identifier
			- objects that are tracked by an ID
			- the behaviors on an entity are ALL ABOUT the thing identified by that entity
		- some objects we call "values"
			- an object that is compared to other objects based on their "value"
			- if you have two instances of the same date, does it matter which one you have? -- no
			- data transfer objects (DTOs) are a name sometimes used for values
			- records are really great for expressing that an object is a DTO, or it is not an entity, etc.
		- some objects we call "services"


After this, we shifted to learning about defensive programming. The old-school, pre-unit-test methods that required a lot of speculation became what Jeff described as "hippy-dippy-free-love time" in the new-school era. This led to a review of some of the modes of programming -- application developers whose jobs are to get code deployed as quickly as possible and library developers who are writing code that will be used by teams outside of the context in which they wrote it.

We ended Day 5 by learning more about the features of C#, including predicates, delegates, the Action type and more. Variables of type Action are able to take as many as 16 parameters. Something I had never learned before was that anonymous methods with the arrow function are possible in C#. I had previously only seen this in JaavaScript. Also like Javascript, we learned that C# has "Where" (like "Filter in JS) and "Select" (like "Map" in JS). Finally, we discussed extension methods with a caution to avoid going overboard with them like some developers did when the feature first became available.