---
slug: intro-day2
title: Day 2 of Intro to Programming
author: Dylan Reynolds
tags: [Training, DotNet]
---

Day 2 of Intro to Programming was a crash course in the C# language and object oriented programming principles. Toward the beginning of the day, we discussed namespaces, learning how types that belong to a certain namespace can not be found outside of that namespace. The using statement tells the compiler to check that namespace if it can't find something.

One of the many Visual Studio keyboard shortcuts we learned today, ctrl+., is used for quickly adding using statements to code.

Soon we were discussing C# data types. I also did not realize before that short is just an alias for a 16-bit integer, while int is an alias for a 32-bit integer. Another data type I did not know much about is not a data type at all -- we learned that var is a actually compiler instruction. When a programmer uses var in their code, the compiler infers the type.

A concept that surely will be important to understand going forward as a developer is the understanding of how memory works in terms of the stack and the heap. We learned how with value types, the value lives on the stack, while the value for reference types lives on the managed heap.

While I knew a little about the stack and heap from the bootcamp I attended this summer, I did not know before that stack is broken up into three columns -- the identifier, the type and the value.

We spent much of the afternoon working on test driven development practices. The principle we learned is that test driven development means testing first to then design our applicaiton. Our process was "red, green, refactor." That process starts with getting to a "meaningfully" failing unit test that fails on the assert, then getting to green as soon as possible without worrying about writing "good code," and finally making the code "good" by renaming things, optimizing it and finding duplication.