---
slug: intro-day9
title: Day 9 of Intro to Programming
author: Dylan Reynolds
tags: [Training, DotNet]
---

We began Day 9 of the Intro to Programming course by learning about the history of web browsers and how new developments throughout the years affected how programmers worked. Jeff described how at one point, it was hard to believe that application-like programs such as text editors, PowerPoint, etc. would ever run in a web browser.

Eventually, the Flash player made it possible to write applications that could be run in a browser or on desktop, although Steve Jobs refused to allow Flash to run on iOS, leaving some applications unable to run on the iPhone.

Google went on to develop the Chrome browser because they couldn't push their web applications (Gmail, Calendar, etc.) further on the other browsers. Now, due to Chromium, we are back in an era where a single company is controlling the web browser standards -- only this time it is Google instead of Microsoft's Internet Explorer.

Browsers are now "evergreen," with updates downloading in the background.

We also covered a significant amount of technical subjects today. One thing we talked about was the difference between pure and impure functions. In Angular, our reducers need to be 100% pure functions. I will attach my notes below. 
    
    - pure functions
        - a function that has an output that is directly mapped to its input
        - the inputs are a map to the outputs
        - if you call it with the same arguments, you always get the same values back
            - predictable
            - testable
    - impure funtions
        - a function that has an output that is not predictable based on the input
            - for example, if the value of one of the inputs is determined outside the function
        - a function with side effects
            - if your function changes something about the outside world


I took notes on many of the other topics we discussed, which are pasted below.

    - any use of the any type or the "as" keyword without validating is like setting landmines
    - it is the responsibility of components and effects to ensure that no invalid data gets into the state
        - components do this by validating input on forms and limiting user interactions
        - effects do this by validating data received by outside "thingies" -- APIs, local storage, whatever
    - switchMap vs. concatMap
        - switchMap is cancellable
            - often used for safe operations like GET
            - if a user were to make a requests and keep refreshing the browser before they finish, those outstanding requests are just thrown away and the last one is taken
        - concatMap is often for "unsafe" operations like POST, PUT, DELETE
    - service oriented architecture
        - there are many situations at Progressive and elsewhere where an API needs to call another API