---
slug: intro-day8
title: Day 8 of Intro to Programming
author: Dylan Reynolds
tags: [Training, DotNet]
---

As we continued developing our gifting application using Angular, we began Day 8 by talking about how Agnular stacks up against other options such as React or Vue. Jeff described Angular as being more "batteries included" for developing stateful client-side applications that run on a web browser, even if it is not always as beginner-friendly as some of its competitors. Testing is one area where Angular really excels, as it is easier to write goods tests for angular compared to many other tools out there.

We spent a lot of time in Day 8 learning about the state -- what it is and how to interact with it. We defined the state as "how things are RIGHT NOW." As a demonstration of some of the state-related topics we discussed, we added a counter to our gift giving application where a user could increment, decrement or reset the count. The user could eventually select whether to increment/decrement in multiples of 1, 3 or 5. This example helped us learn more about using actions and reducers in our code.

Something useful we learned while working with reducers (but that can be used elsewhere as well) is the spread operator. This allows us to duplicate objects, but with some changes that we specify. I am pasting some example code below where we use the spread operator to return the current state, but with some modifications. This is what allowed us to update the store after our actions were executed.


    export const reducer = createReducer(initialState,
        on(CounterCommands.countby, (s,a) => ({...s, by: a.by})),
        on(CounterCommands.reset, (s) => ({...s, current: 0})),
        on(CounterCommands.incremented, (currentState) => ({...currentState, current: currentState.current + currentState.by})),
        on(CounterCommands.decremented, (s) => ({...s, current: s.current - s.by}))
    );